>> Melkey: So
we have this happy path error,
let's also create some not happy errors,
right?
Some paths that we want to error,
these should be errors, right?
We can see the name of this is going
to be a workout with invalid entries.
Okay, we can do the workout,
is going to be workout like so.
And feel free to copy and
paste the values from workout up here,
like the tile description,
duration, minutes, calories burned.
>> Melkey: If it makes it typing easier.
So I'm gonna make the title as full body.
I'll make description as complete workout,
duration,
we'll make it 90, and
calories burned, we'll make it 500.
Doesn't truly matter.
And here in the entries will
be a slice of WorkoutEntry.
>> Melkey: Right, and here we'll
have two entries to demonstrate it
catching a potential problem.
So here we'll make the exercise name,
plank.
Okay, we'll say this is just sets three,
reps for a plank.
We could do something like 60.
We could do notes and order index,
so this should be fine.
>> Melkey: And this would be one.
>> Melkey: Cool, and then here we'll add
another entry into the WorkoutEntries,
and this is gonna have
the constraint that we have.
So let's go to exercise name,
we'll say squats.
Sets, we can set as 4.
Reps, we can do int pointer as 12.
And then here we'll put
duration in seconds.
Now, if you remember, we can't have
both reps and duration in seconds.
We expect this to fail on us, right?
So that's why this is
gonna be a test case.
We want to capture our error.
So duration in seconds
would be an int pointer 60.
We can do weight,
it doesn't really matter, FloatPtr.
Just put this as whatever value you want,
185.0.
We can put notes as,
Full depth, and OrderIndex 2.
Okay, and one more thing, for
this case, do we wantErr true?
>> Melkey: [COUGH]
>> Melkey: Cool, so
now that we have the tests fully created,
>> Melkey: To make sure,
right here, so
outside of the slices of your test,
we're actually gonna go
through them individually.
So we'll do 4, unless we can ignore
the first variable in test case,
in range of tests.
So the test we just created,
we're gonna leverage our testing fixture.
So we do test.run.
We'll pass in the name of every individual
test, we know what's currently running.
And then we're gonna bring
in an anonymous function.
Okay, and this anonymous function is
gonna be responsible for actually running
the test that we are curious about,
or that we want to know about, right?
So this func testing, so here,
we can do createdWorkout error.
Is going to be store.CreateWorkout,
you can pass in tt.workout, like so.
It's testing.t on the fixture.
>> Melkey: I forgot to add it last time.
Okay, so here we can do if,
our test case, if we want an error.
So if this is true, we expect
store.CreateWorkout to in fact error out.
So we can do assert, right, and
we should actually bring in that
assert package, cuz sometimes
my LSP brings it in randomly.
So it's github.com/ is going
to be the stretcher package.
So, stretcher slash testify,
we can bring assert.
>> Melkey: Says I don't have it,
so let's see.
>> Melkey: And we get to do slash assert.
>> Melkey: It's stretch.
There you go.
So here we can then use assert, okay,
and since we expect this to be an error,
we can do error.
>> Melkey: Okay, give me a second.
And with this error, we can just make sure
that we pass in that texting fixture t,
and then the error that we expect
from the call of CreateWorkout, and
then we can return.
And so this explicit return will
stop the test cases, right?
We're gonna actually get out of the test
cases here, or the test suite, okay?
So if If we don't want this to error,
we expect this to be a happy case.
So what we can do is require no error,
okay?
We can call it t, and then error.
So this is gonna validate
that error is none.
Okay, so here, we require that no error.
And then here,
we can just start asserting the fields we
expect to have in our created workout.
So here we can do assert equal,
and pass in our t fixture,
and here we can make the workout.title.
We can make sure this matches
created workout.Title, right?
We can just copy and
paste this a few times.
We could do title and description,
so like, description, and
then we could do something like,
DurationMinutes.
>> Melkey: Like so, and
DurationMinutes, right?
So we're gonna make sure that whatever
we're answering via created workout is,
in fact, gonna be what we're inserting for
the text case that we've assembled, okay?
And then one other thing I like to do is,
because we have an actual database,
we can actually also retrieve it.
Since we created it,
we know it's gonna exist in a database.
Why, now we see what happens when we
pull it out and does it still match
the values that we want it to when
we initially inserted it, right?
So here we can do something
like retrieved error,
is gonna be store.GetWorkoutByID, okay?
And then we can cast the type,
you can use in 64,
we can cast the type using
CreatedWorkout.ID, okay?
So let's make sure,
AcquireNoError NoError(t, and
an error like so,
to cover the error from GetWorkoutByID.
And in here we can do assert.Equal,
pass in our t fixture, and
we can do createdWorkout.ID.
Matches the retrieved.CaloriesBurned
the ID, like so.
We can also assert.Equal, okay?
And for all of these functions,
it first expects the testing fixtures,
that's why I'm passing in t continuously.
You can also check that
the length of tt.workout.Entries
matches the length of retrieved.Entries,
all right?
And this is pretty good, but we also wanna
check the actual entries themselves.
So here, for
i entry in range retrieved entries, okay?
Now we can iterate through every single
entry that we have in our entry slice and
see if they are in fact correct.
So, one thing we can do is assert.Equal t,
tt.Workout.Entry.
We can index it by i to
get the specific one,
ExerciseName matches the retrieved.
I guess we also just do entry,
>> Melkey: Retrieved,
not title, but retrieved.Entries.
We can also index it at i,
and can do, ExerciseName.
And then can, if you want,
just remove the entry here or use it.
>> Melkey: I think I personally like
having this a little bit more explicit,
just personally,
with the iteration i using the index, but
I'll leave that up to you.
And then we can do this
on a few more fields.
So instead of ExerciseName,
we can check something like sets, oops.
>> Melkey: Right, and we can also check
another field like OrderIndex, for
example.
So here, GetSets.
>> Melkey: Here, OrderIndex.
Interesting.
So that's why I did v.
So fatal f does not support error
wrapping directive, module w,
that's why I did v, Michael.
>> Micheal: I just noticed
those OSP warnings.
>> Melkey: Yep, so the texting fixture,
fatal f doesn't get the error
wrapping module of format specifier.
So we have to use the v,
that's like a catch all, struct one.
>> Micheal: Okay.
>> Melkey: I knew there's a reason,
but I don't think my LSP was,
when you asked the question,
I don't think it was pulling up.